pilot select should be one image and click through options
    should be able to select color and....other stuff?..maybe have an image of the ship on intro scene to click.. or arrows.
    .or a Color: section on intro that randomly choose something on game load, doesn't look like you click to change it but you can.
    maybe other easter eggs where if you keep clicking something that does something little and occasionally reacts to having been clicked a lot, finally does something like boosts stats. (or nerfs them) 
powerups shouldn't spawn too close to ships (not super important for now)

start building test suite for this project
shooting stars effect in the background
gravity black hole - reappear warp
powerups and black holes disappear after time, blinking out at the end.
moving powerUps

lobby selection
    simple lobby system could just be selecting from a list of lobbies and that sets which array of id's you use - from there it works the same p2p as now

1 player mode select?

specials... invicible?, drop mines, get bigger?

char select effects/ design
music
sound effects

invince ships could be bigger?
    can we easily scale the drawing? and of course the text around the ship would need scaling too... and not sure it's a good feature...

shrinking level - could be all around or could be left to right to require progress

some kind of share option - a la wordle 

different types of enemies/powerups, moving.
    some kind of object we collide with. So far either kill, get killed, or it's the world boundary, harder to deal with a collision
     first an unmovable wall.... then an object that would bounce... if we have bouncing then the ships could bounce off each other... back to sumo style...would need better hitbox for ships I think.        
        basic carfootball style game?
PvE?
general racing 
    like this - power up could be speed boost, or have separate boosts and power ups are mk style
    drafting mechanic?
    "jumps?" - in air would need drawing effect, and could then not interact with entities and future objects like walls while "airborn" though what that mean in space idk... setting could change 
    lap records
    weekly/all time leaderboards

    gates
procedural level generation?

new challenger approaches when connect to someone
some kind of run game with the mouse / ship mechanic/physics we have
sumo mechanic? - with static kill obstacles? or just for non star interactions?
how to p2p with run style game

on screen arrow to direct to offscreen opponents
    could be useful feature for "bounty" event or other key collectable event 
    
maybe always provide thrust at low level -

master could send connection list in full update? -not seen an issue with mismatched connections in a long time though

need to introduce the idea of ongoing game so lose state for one is only local for them
maybe you lose health as time goes by and you have to keep up with picking up power ups to restore?

some visual effect when ships hit
draw shadows
leader mark drawn - bonus for killing
way to attack without getting hurt - maybe speed/angle - maybe states - pacman style? mario star style?
     - maybe when collected a few normal power ups? maybe they fill a guage which drains slowly which thrusting
    - this would become the way mainly score
make ships much bigger
Compete for large moving powerups, possibly in addition to the star mario/pac man state
maybe also moving large obstacles (non-lethal?) pushing? and lethal.
level ups? more gauges?
worldDimensions maybe don't let Player know about this an have to always pass in a parameter to methods?
camera shake

bots should "run" from players with invicible time?

faster when star??

display combo multiplier in ui (when above 1)?

update "powerups" verbage to "score" throughout

include kills tracking in leaderboard/score report?

notion of lives 3,2,1 GO if hit and have lives left - animation showing life icon being removed.

- unique messaging if killed by multiple times? rival?

background on name entry like on the leaderboards/lore
refactor box drawing?

consider better options for right click. 
     -warp? why? escape?

another, closer, "inRangeticks variable for botstate?
r2d2 sound for bumble boost?
seems too random to get hit, no prolonged engagement either get hit or don't and not engaged anymore...
2nd (3rd, 4th) state for after something.. is collectively achieved, opens worm hole etc, opens part of the edge .. boss?

instead/as well as power ups we have gates.... which maybe are also portals?.. randomly?
gates could be curated or intelligently generated in sets to allow for mini circuits/building up flowgates could blinks before for "gate" I'm thinking   |----|     so 2 lines marking the frame and a 'large" opening you go through in a particular direction (2 choices of direction, but could have directional ones.)

idea of a crash? hitting a gate  edge too fast? need to at least deal with collision... unless hitting edge kills always
faster you go through a gate the more points/ more stuff?

speed being a factor in normal kills? your velocity or relative impact velocity? could give more points/star time for fast, or too slow might not kill?

as combo (or some kinda of gate combo) builds could enter state of more difficult generated gate patterns.

notion of health?health could decrease and gating could increase, like arcade checkpoint race system
    maybe not health but a TIMEOUT, so still death as before, but an extra death condition.

botstate to try to traverse the gates

safe starting/respawning area? forcefielded off?
separate p2p connection and db connection

name? space.io? 

bot could consider bouncing off the wall as means to quickly boost towards the center - should be a late implementation since walls may go and would be a very specific implementation
    -maybe not too tricky, check if close to a wall and if target is perpendiulatly far from the wall and momentum perpendicual component of velocity is towards the wall and would be a good candiate to head to wall.
    
issue where sometimes old connections get joined to and if they have a low id they will be master but not send anything(since they're closed) can I somehow close these?

as the bots get better I'll need to add in some more flaws. 
   maybe they set course less frequently, and a a distance set an inaccurate target
   variable for last course correction perhaps and use that and distance from taget to decide whether to adjust or hold.
   maybe hold course for just a moment after getting power up for example
   while no thrust
   could use boost when far and chasing

maybe star drains slower if no throttle at all.

more pilot stats e.g. 
    speed,boost speed, invicible time,push/pull strength


sometimes non-master can not get credited for powerup collection or double collected, done a work on this, but still need more, it's not common now. (even when connection seems good otherwise)

apply less pull if they are star?
drain their force power if in the pull range? sepearate special "drain" could just take points, or also drain invic, maybe drain "power" which would nerf speed for a time

collision should be based on actual hitbox, 
bot targeting could be based on distance - if the bot "sees" a target it will go for it.... periodically could check it's "sight"
    could/should the facing direction be factored into this?

move powerups to entity
    move collision to general entity check with onColide function(method?) to run.

build charge if still? or if press/hold a charge button?
    inv power?
    a boost charge?

a brake?
a control style switch? (follow mouse?)

circles you have to stop in / stay in for x seconds for ... something? power up? charging in there?
or some kind of king of the hill thing.

mark significant score with awards, bait user to complete for more just a bit higher score.
    some grind awards - more than x points 10 times - more than 4 kills etc....

simple login to handle awards / progression

how to tutorial?

mines need to spawn away from ships and ships need to spawn away from mines

for fast speeds might need to calculate movement in half or quater frames to check for collision.

might have to rethink the force having a reference to tracks player

player property for still in initial setup?

credit "pushed" kills?

if implement full hitboxes could have the front bit be invincible.

give bots specials and make them use them on defense / offence

deal with non-master drawing of forces (interpolate like with players should do it)

Be more selective about what data send? currently sending everything for bots/forces and not using everything, could speed up data transfer.

//gotHit and addScore are both doing an additional key function of sending the playerstates as master. 
//Need to unpick this, maybe there should be events for gotHit and addscore and masterpeer responds to such events with sending player state for the given player

only need to draw if drawing would be onscreen! How is this optimised by default?

if make directional forces bigger after creation need to reset numberArrowsEachSide so it's recalculated -could just create new force instead- have to be careful about overlapping times?

  bots detect if stuck on forces?  done
    advanced: use predicted forces to determine where should aim based on forces ahead

direction forcepads should not spawn too close to a wall if facing that wall

should remove/move boost / forcepads after a time... maybe just give them an actual expiry?

speicals should pull / push mines/powerups?
    could only pull powerups but they pull quite slowly?

should "combo score" shown be the total score throughout the combo?
    differnt sound effect for extent of score in combo.. probably not.

add favicon.ico to source

still sometimes don't get the  "killed by" name tracked, I omit the line in that case, but not ideal.- maybe even a generic kill line would be better.

scores of the week?(last 7 days?)
    All time scores?

other unique properties for pilots?size? 
  
completely different graphic for star/invic timer?.

some kind of background warping / blurring for the point gravity wells

character whose special changes between all the specials

force refresh if fall behind in execution time?

way to throw away peerjs messages?
    have timestamps, but when message fell behind they never caught up, might be worth reenabling now I've cut down on message load.

spawn position check that itterates through all current objects and gives space (could just keep rerolling rng until a valid spot? should be fine as long as there's more valid spots than invalid)

maybe point forces should have very strong grav right at center...but dont to make slingshot worse.. maybe an actual pos move when near center?

beingDrawn function for ship, that way logic for hit detection is linked to logic for drawing (with additional modifiers)

keep track of a list of names that you killed and killed by for flavor text when die and for...

if new player joins and becomes master it takes over the gamestate - bots, mines,powerups,forcepads... 
    ideally it first takes the current masters state before taking over...not sure how to work that though... 

in transition of master collision detection allows multiple collections...
cover the master switching with some kind of in game lore event / effect? storm activating or something? No interactions during the "event" when event is done could push startStorm and frameOfStorm, so all could finish at the same time

send only changed data in standard master send, new slave peers need to request full update

known camera follow bug if no bots alive and spectating (could )

pilots portrait while in game? with powerup icon?
    could animate like the old carmageddon

make the score / combo text bigger and more obnoxious, whoosh at screen?

mines/...stuff could randomly/sporadically change color

accept master updates only if agree it's from master (add sending id to payload)
add a "request full update" payload for when set new master peer. have master peer handle that and limit how frequently it sends those out, since many peers could request that in quick succession, perhaps exponential backoff on subsequent sends.
maybe have basic player updates include who they consider master peer? could be used to trigger choosenewmaster

ensure unique id's for entities

sometimes can get into game without name set (think without pilot set too?)

blocking troll error screen overlay if "specs too low"

once connections are more optimized revisit the position easing, could be better less or more. Think the occasional brief flickering across screen might be to do with that.
    could make it ease only the final few pixels.

might be able to try ignoring old messages again once optimised

i think sometimes the invic loss from a mine/other collision might get synced away for slave peers.
 guessing sometimes the timing works out so they send their invic value to the master and the master accepts it

 the game somewhat encourages clicks near the edge of the window - annoying, expecially when uses don't know/understand they should bounce off it. Do I need more of a border?

 could have enemy spawning in over player, tracks until a certain time at which point it could stop or have limited movement speed, could use extract bot ai?
    could be like an astroid or something (finally using astroids)

    follow "killed by" first - may need to have a non player local game var for keeping track of that

sometimes collision can just effect one of the players, possible property override idk

rocket/flame thrust indicator (with size tied to force size - including special) particles left behind.

 "set piece" combninations of mines,forces, powerups etc
    implement more valuable powerups within these curations

random events - angle lock, offset angle- could 180 could be just a weird amount,engine stuck on, slower,faster, special stuck on, bounty, long inincible time
    special event camera messes up in various ways, are screenshake.. which maybe is just a camera thing?

game replay.. what would we need to maintain in gamestate to be able to replay

make bots/humans distinct?
unclear who is who in the thick of the action... icon instead of name?

how combo's worked was unclear

invicible effect could be a shield (may also combine with bigger hit box)

tips boxes

big camera margin
OR outside of level could just be the forces pushing back?
    could be the odd power up in there?
    easter egg where you can just about get through to secret area with boost (maybe also with the extra speed event?)

health 
    lot of changes needed for this  
    do ships bounce off each other?
    health is another stat and allows for more stats, regen over time,regen for pickups, 
    have shield and spikey shield? make more clear what they are doing?

melee attack? how would that work for spaceship? some ion.. something


more interactive hazards
    having health
    having weight for collision bounce


better ui for name/health bar 
teaser for upcoming events
reconsider master peer server

revist lifes? Each life is stronger than the last to encourage sticking with it?

if have physics collision revisit space football idea.
    arrow to ball

google sso 
  long term grind achievments/unlocks
  score targets for game
  life target for game
  survival targets for game
  "level" with xp and that crap

more post game stats    
    rank based on ...stuff?
    longest kill streak
    total kills
    total score
    time alive
    basic powerups collected
    snarky comment based on type of play, riff on old goldeneye awards? "mostly harmless" to "master... something"

star carrot? characters are different carrots
star...wormm... star something...


hints on death screen
intructions as concisely as possible with image?
    Hold Left Mouse button to engage thrusters!
    Ships thrusts away from your mouse
    Right Click to use your unique special!


paper clips theme
ad to continue lol

UI element you can hover for controls?
cleaner background


collect stuff of your color avoid stuff of other color?
Ships change to random color at .... set interval? (announced?) ...at will? 
    ships of same color pass through each other

Ships can fire an expanding ring of a set color? 
    have to be the correct color to avoid.
    I have to make it's easy to tell the correct color ... maybe RPS themed rather than just color? 

Spawn out of a mothership?

trail effect, maybe that's what kills, snake style....

maintain an enemies array and it's contents then have an inherited method to overrride for equality check or 


get points and credit kills if someone dies on your trail
    collectables drop from crashed ship

enable trail at will to paint?

find a way to optimise trails 
update trail death message

I think trails should be distinct from mines, and should be a single object with many points of articulation.
    if we go this route the "tail" could have it's own momentum

mine destroy effect same as ship 

regular mine spawns should have a chance to spawn a power up pretty close.
    directional forces ditto

now color is so important master should assign slave peers a color when connected if current color clashes
    or color is changable at will and no friendly fire

spacing issue can occur where play and menu buttons arn't where expected - looks like a result of an interupted screen shake? need to recover from this

team game? team colors? team request?

could improve canvas reset workaround by detecting if a reset took place and if so adjusting/offseting event mouse co-ords to match what the offset was. 

some more fanfare when a bot/otherplayer dies rather than just disappearing from the scoreboard - it could stay in crossed out briefly? would then need an "is dead" timer? nah we could create an object when we get player is dead (or keep trying to create it if doesn't exist for that death?) and update that.

mechanic where you have to enclose something in your trail....maybe if you enclose a circle it all fills in....no idea how to check that without the trail overhaul(probably needed anyway)
    trail overhaul could be a wrapper and mines could still be the active parts
    encircling enemies = kill
    encircling ... some new object (shrine) could be a way to get points. could combine with the idea of being able to switch color...
        maybe not at will but could be something else...
        you get color change by entering directional force?
            and then need to be a certain color to do some things
            collaborative option?
        maybe the shrine you encircle becomes ... collected and you take it somewhere.


change language for a double ko/ crash

when encircle detected, for a start color the encircled area. create some new entity? new mine version use effect? and just do a kill check?

maybe head /body is invincible but tail isn't?


add kill/removal of powerups, otherplayers (than playerID of freeMine), otherbots... from inside freemine.
    maybe it can - "break open" some new kind of entity 
tail grows like snake?
    but loses tailyness over time? That's the in game survial aspect?
    max length exists
    no length = game over
    what to do about tail receding when still?... maybe if trail mines are very close to player of playerID they don't expire

bots could check for close powerups when choosing a new one? at all times? every % frames? 

currently just checking free mine at start I think? at least for the special checks? need to get that being checked in masterUpdate

check colors for good ones improve average quality, vivid bright

mines/areas that will on countdown or sporadically explode or generically become hurtboxes. think retracting spikes. on off laser field?

did refactor break the background paralax?

doesn't work on firefox? detect browser and don't let firefox play?

deliberate hallucinations between players?
or shared hallucinations "fake" enitities?
    viewing field - maybe the force fields could reveal (or new power up)
    could be a "dark mode" where every player casts a searchlight


    let know if score is a top X score of the day/all time /whatever on dead screen...show daily leaderboard on that view?

Can we cache things like daily leaderboard? Are we querying / generating every frame?

when removing mines due to too many, do it with an effect and blink out rather than disappear

if not connected don't prepare data to send.

if e.g. 2 master peers don't get connected to each other (or lose connection) say a and b, b shouldn't be master but each connection to c thinks it's master so c gets messed up...
    can C detect this state and.... something   
        get a and b connected would be ideal
        

general connection issues ... firefox? privacy extension/ in built? ... general not recovering connection state?

ping test?

flag / icon select (draw own?)

XP gain at death? XP gain 



rather than send updated isDead property maybe run function to handle that (score update)?
for now I'll just do the update for master

draw XP guage, calculate what level should be based on xp.

"ice" / areas that change friction effectCharacter unlocked after certain level? 
Does achievements update when return to menu?
 Xp added to guage after deathLogin user as anonymous? Or just have fallback "in ram" values maintained. 